oon my name is Matt Sturgis on a global
alliance manager at Apple who manages
the Oracle relationship and I like to
thank everybody for coming here it's
been a very exciting week for Apple and
Oracle start off with a keynote address
mentioned by Steve Jobs on Monday
followed up a little bit later that
morning with some additional messaging
about some products availability coming
out from Oracle in the coming months
with 10g oracle 10g and jdeveloper their
development ide for Apple we're very
very excited about our relationship with
Oracle moving forward I know for some of
you out there in the audience this has
been a long time coming we're very
excited to be bringing this technology
to you today's presentation i think is
going to be a great great learning
experience for everybody here we've got
some incredible presenters from oracle
introduced in a second but we're very
excited again about oracle 10g coming
onto the platform today they release in
press announcements and it's going to be
available this fall again with
jdeveloper their java development tools
so again i like to thank you for coming
today we look forward to to a great
event with oracle i like to now as for
speakers tom kite is the vice president
of core technologies out of Oracle's
rest in office responsible for
government education and healthcare is
going to go ahead and kick off the
presentation followed by mark Pierre
marini senior technologist out of that
office he's going to give us a great
demonstration of the power of HTML DB
their application development platform
so I like to thank Tom and introduce
them and get this kicked off thank you
[Applause]
good afternoon so he said my name is Tom
kite I've been with Oracle going on
about 11 years now but have been using
the database software for about 16 knots
just curious just to get a feel in the
audience how many of you have developed
applications using oracle is the
database excellent so I don't have to
explain what SQL and other things like
that stands for
perfect one of the things I spend way
too much my time doing at Oracle is
working on a website called a spa
morecambe that's one of the many
resources out there for you to get
answers to technical questions and
things like that another resource that
I'd like to sort of point out get out of
there for second and go over into the
web browser otn oracle com this is the
Oracle technology Network and just to
prove that this stuff actually exists
you can go there today this afternoon if
you like to product centers download for
the database and featured right down
there we have the Oracle 10g developers
release for the mac OS so you can go get
it the same software that we're running
on these Xers over here for the for the
demonstration is what you guys would be
downloading and installing in your own
environment so what you see is doing are
things you'd actually be able to do
yourself later this afternoon and back
to the slide so we have a really short
agenda I'm going to talk about to
database things the two main things
about oracle 10g the g in 10 G stands
for the grid so we're going to take a
look at that briefly then we're going to
look at the the other half of 10 gb
what's in it for all the rest of us the
manageability features that they add it
to the database 10g has over 350 new
things new functional areas added to it
over 9i release 2 which had about 150
things over 9i release one which had
about a hundred and ninety things over a
tie every year we've been coming out
with more and more inside the database
10g is our current production relief we
started rolling it out on various
platforms in the middle of this winter
the februari time frame available on the
Macintosh now and a developer's release
consider that sort of late beta and
we're looking at the fall time to go
production and then we're going to close
up with HTML BB we
its marked or marinis going to sort of
walk you through and show you what this
this development tool is so beginning
very simply with the grid this is sort
of a picture that describes the sort of
systems I've worked on him I've been
doing this since the mid-1980s and I
started as a peel one programmer on an
IBM mainframe using this thing that not
many people heard about because I was
the newest kid there I got to play with
the coolest new stuff so they set me
about programming answer this thing
called db2 and sequel des and that was
really started you know where I got all
my my sequel background but pretty much
a lot of our systems back then we're
mainframe base very reliable centralized
these things never went down when I
first came to Oracle in the early 90s
there was a lot of shift away from a
mainframe source centralized environment
into more of a departmental server so
sovak was what we all ran on I had a VT
100 connected to fax machines everything
with character mode we had literally
hundreds of servers all over the world
running things in the mid-90s we went
through this sort of I call it a faux
pas this is client-server face I
remember 1995 we rolled out to 20,000
sales rep laptops with client server
software on it it was called sales force
automation is going to make everybody so
super productive this would be great the
only thing we really got out of this was
on Monday we had 20,000 people with the
same installation and by Friday we had
20,000 sort of unique installations out
there trying to keep the software and
thinking keep the patches going was just
impossible fortunately in 1995 this
internet thing started coming along as
well and we migrated all of our
applications to a more internet centric
approach we sort of got back to a lot of
the attributes of the mainframe the
browser became our 3278 sort of screen
if you will but we went back through a
major reconsolidation phase where we
took a lot of our systems
and clump them together into single
systems instead of running 187 email
servers we went down to single email
servers one of the things that allowed
us to do this to sort of consolidate
these systems so I'm going to be talking
about next this grid architecture so
there's a lot of people who study this
and they look at systems and they say
you know what the way we're doing it is
wrong I've got this system that for most
of the years it's their Idol or
underutilized and they may be one or two
months out of the year the thing is
really busy I'll use one of my customers
as an example the IRS I know they have a
lot of systems that in January start to
ramp up by April fifteenth at midnight
they're going gangbusters and then after
that those systems are pretty much idle
for the rest of the year but then they
have other systems to pick up at the end
of April to start processing the data
and what they've done is what most of us
would do they put somebody in charge of
system one and you went out you got his
budget you said you know I need to size
for April fifteenth they gave another
system to somebody else the data
warehouse well I need 25 my system for
may and so they go out and they buy
these mega sort of machines everything
is configured for their peak ululation
the availability is fairly good not as
good as it could be but it's pretty much
a poor way to utilize this because
there's any point in time if you added
up all the free cycles you probably have
three empty computer sitting out there
because one of the machines is fully
utilized and the others are not doing
much at all so we've come along along
with a lot of other people in Oracle
it's not trying to say we invented the
grid or the grid is Oracle or Oracle is
the grid there's many ways to approach
grid computing for us
is our very simple definition
coordinated use of many small servers
acting together as one large computer
like a bunch of Xers inside of Iraq this
is different from say IBM's programmatic
approach to grid computing they have a
grid tool kit where someone can take
their problem basically decompose it
paralyze it use the grid tool kit and
come up with a very scalable solution
for their particular problem we took it
from a different perspective we wanted
to take applications that already
existed and be able to plug them into
this grid environment without having to
change them so what we've done is sort
of our grid tool kit is our database our
application servers you have an
application that you'd like to run in a
grid sort of environment you don't have
to program specifically and build a
briton you just take a database
application and deploy it in a grid
capable database so one of the examples
this is sort of what I was talking about
before I've got two systems order entry
and financials well things go very
cyclical this is May 31st at Oracle May
31st is the end of our fiscal year we
booked most of our business in the last
couple of hours for the year on that
particular day those order entry systems
are totally maxed out the very next day
for the next month the system is really
busy is our financial system so we
started doing is consolidating these
instead of having separate stove pipe
systems put our applications into a
single database with multiple servers in
front of it so we have an order entry
financial database single database
single set of discs but three or four
Wow ever many computers we need able to
access that information in a read/write
fashion and we can load balance across
those so one month two out of three
nodes could be order entry the next
month to Ebbetts green nodes could be a
financial system so we're able to
allocate and reallocate these resources
very quickly very
a MacLean the technology that lets us do
this is something we call real
application clusters you're all familiar
with raid 4 discs that just makes sense
at this point you understand how that
works maybe you mirror your disks and if
you lose one that's okay you still have
a mirror of it maybe you're using raid 5
so you have five discs working together
and if I lose one that's ok as well Rack
is raid for your computer system in a
clustered environment like this i'm
going to have one database so those four
disks represent a single database if you
will I'm going to have four instances of
Oracle in this particular example so I
have four computers that have full
read/write access to this single
database image I can log in the node 1
and run a query I can log in to node 4
run the same exact query it's going
against the same data in fact I can
update the same information in node 1
deduction update in node 2 3 and 4 this
bodice two things first and foremost it
by this much higher availability I have
to lose three out of four computers
before I'm in danger of having the
system become totally unavailable so it
gives me the ability to reduce unplanned
downtime if I lose a power supply cpu
goes bad something happens to a ram chip
it's okay one of those nodes can go down
the other nodes will pick up the
workload the other thing he gave me was
the ability to scale my application out
I don't know how big my application is
going to ultimately be all I know is
initially i'm going to have 50 users it
might grow to five hundred it might grow
to five thousand it's really hard to spy
systems for three or four years out
sometimes because you don't know how
popular some of them are going to be you
know the website you're building it to
be the coolest thing since sliced bread
or is it going to be a ho-hum event well
you don't want to have to buy a
super-large server to serve up something
that becomes a whole arm of event
eventually down the road be much nicer
to start small with the hardware
start drawing it out over time is needed
we did this with our email we
consolidated all of our email in Oracle
from 187 servers down to one we started
with a two node rack cluster we needed
additional capacity we're now running a
three node wrap cluster on our email
email for Oracle is a mission-critical
sort of application if we don't have
email up and running we actually can't
process orders we can't do order
fulfillment we can't do our job
basically so our email system being able
to scale it out horizontally by adding
additional capacity as well as having it
highly available so that it's a single
node or two nodes evening sale we still
have access to our email systems so what
was new in 10g Rack is something we
introduced in oracle 9i in oracle a time
before you might have known it as oracle
parallel server in 10g we made it
infinitely easier to install configure
and manage so for example one of the
things we did was added integrated
clustering software in the past so i was
using oracle 9i and i wanted to run rack
what i have to do is is get the oracle
database from oracle i'd have to get
clustering software from some vendor I
have to get an operating system run this
on and then I need some sort of volume
management software to manage my disk
and that infrastructure you have these
four pieces of software probably coming
from four different companies or maybe
two or three but four different pieces
of software are complex software you
install them onto the the hardware and
you start it up and the first thing that
always seem to happen was nothing would
work so you call up vendor one and
they'd say we need this OS patch apply
the OS patch that break the vendor to
vendor to set so if you apply that patch
we have to have this as well and then
that Briggs vendor three and then vendor
cerises off if you apply this patch
everything's going to be great
everything is great but you've got this
environment it's pretty fragile you're
sort of afraid to apply a patch at that
point because what if the patch has a
bad interaction
say some Veritas software or the
security patch causes the networking
layer to behave differently and Oracle
doesn't respond the same way anymore so
you've got this very fragile environment
that you're afraid to touch with this
integrated clusterware and as we'll see
in a minute stories management software
you have two pieces of interacting
software now we're going to have oracle
running just enough clustering software
to make your database cluster just that
a database cluster I've got 2x serves I
want to pull them together have two
instances of Oracle accessing one set of
disks the only thing I need is the mac
OS and the oracle database now if i
install it all and something doesn't
work i have one place to call i call
oracle and they say up do you have this
required OS patch no install it if it
still doesn't work i still only have one
place to call you're not calling veritas
for support on their file system
software you're not calling whomever for
support on their clustering software
it's just a database on top of an
operating system it's as easy to support
and manage as a single database when the
single server would have been so the
clustered environment now becomes pretty
much synonymous with a single machine
environment the other thing it gives us
new and 10g is automated server
provisioning so what I was talking about
with the order entry financial systems
we're one month two of them order entry
in one of them's financials and then
later on is that load changes two of
them become financials one of them
becomes order entry the software can run
in one of two modes one is sort of a
trust me mode where Enterprise Manager
are our grid control piece of software
is watching the system and saying you
know what the loads been changing over
the last couple of hours we're lowering
this sort of a service we need more
financial services right now order entry
it's sort of dying off we're going to
take one of the nodes in the cluster and
we're going to stop redirecting order
entry request to it
just start directing financial requests
to it the other one is is a mode where
you come in and you do this manually we
know until May 31st order entry is going
to be jamming come April first or april
may june june first the financial system
needs the resources so the dba's would
set up a policy that would facilitate
this at midnight or 2 a.m. or during
some downtime they would change these
services around we also have the ability
to slide servers in and out of a cluster
just think about it you've got a whole
bunch of machines out there kind of them
are sitting there is app servers two of
them are sitting there as databases come
along I don't need as many application
servers I'm not I'm not processing
orders from the web at this point in
time I'm doing more data warehouse
things we can actually reallocate some
of our application servers to become
database servers temporarily so I'll go
eight and four and then later on when I
need the application servers back we can
repurpose those nodes in the cluster if
you will they stop being databases and
they start being application servers
again this is something we can do online
without having to shut down and restart
and reconfigure the database instances
in the cluster which is what we used to
have to do in the past the next part is
taking a look at storage so storage has
the same problem as our servers did if I
was asked to five out of system or build
a particular system and say oh I need
500 gigawatts of storage and I need a
machine dis big in order to run this
during that one peak day so if you go
out and look at a lot of your storage
out there you're going to find that some
systems way oversized from system
headway under sized industry came up
with a fairly nice solution for this
call it a storage area network or
network tap storage instead of each
individual system having its own direct
attached storage we pull all those
resources the problem with storage area
networks and network attached storage in
a database environment is that it really
made the job of the system
greater who is responsible for slicing
and dicing up data much easier but did
absolutely nothing for the database
administrator who's got to work with the
storage because what happens I I request
500 gigabytes of storage for my database
that's great and a year give me two
hundred fifty gigabytes more for next
year in a storage area network
environment what happened is the system
administrator would slice out a mount
point for me give me another 250 gig at
storage but it's basically this big
empty set of stuff over there as a DBA I
have to come in and figure out okay what
files am I going to move what data am I
going to split up what's the best way to
sort of utilize this new resource I have
spend a week doing that and we'll spend
a weekend actually implementing it and
the reason it's a weekend is because
this sort of movement encouraged
downtime in order to move a physical
operating system files from you know / v
0 12 / d0 to Oracle can't be writing to
that file at that point so this is a
downtime sort of thing then next week
what happened well we spend next week
figuring out how many mistakes we made
introducing a hotpoint over here or
contention over there and coming up with
another plan so that we can spend the
next weekend sort of coming back and
rebalancing the IL this is a continual
process DBA spend a lot of time looking
at disks moving files around trying to
eke out the best performance they can by
making sure that we achieve this Nirvana
of sort of even io distribution so in
10g what we did was introduce a database
file system so much like you would
install your operating system and say
use a UNIX file system driver or
something like that to build a ufs
you're using automatic storage
management or ASM to build a database
file system this is a file system that
does one thing it holds files that
Oracle ingest and Oracle processes so it
holds redo log files it holds data
well it can hold database backup
anything that Oracle sort of produces
are consumed it can hold what you're not
putting here are your your documents
your HTML files your spreadsheets unless
of course you're actually putting them
inside the database this is purely for
database file and one thing that it does
is it's achieving that goal of even IL
across every single device possible so
here using that same scenario we started
the year with a couple hundred gig of
storage we get an additional allocation
to us we would be adding these devices
into what's known as a disk group this
group is what the DBA sees physically at
the operating system level you still
have all the devices you can manage and
monitor it at the OS level but the DBA
sees this disk group we just doubled the
size of this disk group what you would
observe at the operating system level if
you cared to watch as you add at these
discs would have been a whole lot of
read activity on the top and write
activity on the bottom Oracle would be
going out there and picking up extensive
objects and moving them around
rebalancing the i/o conversely if you
needed to take some storage away from
the database I doubled your size but
that was fifty percent too much I need
to take some of that back for this
there's other application over here you
can go in and actually remove devices
from these fish groups what you'd see
then is a whole lot of read activity on
the devices you remove and it's
spreading out of the data across the
remaining devices here so instead of
working with files and mount points and
moving things around and trying to
determine the optimal IO layout yourself
the database is now doing it at the
database level using the equivalent of a
database file system so in short ASM is
a portable high-performance database
file system it eliminates the need for
conventional volume management so for
example is if you get oracle standard
edition this thing rack comes as a
feature of that so you could get oracle
standard edition put it on a two node
cloth
with two CPUs in each box and what you'd
be running is our clustering software
ASM to manage the disk that's all just
the Oracle database and the operating
system itself there's no other software
to sort of x or integrate into this mix
and in fact with the standard edition we
don't even support it if you attempt to
do that because it makes it too hard to
support in that particular environment
having it all come from a single place
the database managing the database made
everything much easier so in short that
was a quick peek at some of our grid
features gridded is not just rack grid
is many things part of its ASM being
able to take the storage and allocate it
and reallocate it part of the grid is
being able to slide things into Iraq
cluster and slide things out of a rack
cluster part of the grid is being able
to just move data around in your network
but what we looked at today briefly was
predominantly storage related being able
to very easily manage storage in an
Oracle environment database clustering
being with the slide servers in and out
of Iraq cluster we didn't really take a
look at the application servers but they
have the same capability I sort of used
that in an example where I had 10 out
servers and two databases I can steal
from the app servers unplug those
components if you will from that grid
environment and slide them over into the
database environment and then one thing
we will be taking a look at is the grid
control how do we manage for Oracle
instances as if it were a single Oracle
instance because that's really what you
want to do at the end of the day you
don't want to be having to think I've
got these four different instances I
need to remember to do this over here
and that over there I just want to
manage it as though it were one now onto
manageability oracle 10g could have been
called Oracle 10m and sometimes I wish
it had been but when Larry Ellison sat
down and looked at it you know there's
manageability it's hard to spell big
it's long and then there's
it's very short so we went with 10g but
of the 350 new things added to the
database over one-third of them were
manageability features if you just even
look at for example ASM seems like a
grid feature seems like something for
big databases it's equally appropriate
for the small installation I've got I'm
the Oracle DBA I've been given six
correct attached scuzzy disk and I've
been told to make it perform optimally
what do I do where do I start but with
sick disks I really don't have much of
an opportunity so give those to ASM and
let ASM implement this striping and
mirroring of everything it's using the
best overall general iOS group put on
this I don't have to worry about this
thing so ASM is actually a manageability
feature in disguise it's not just a grid
feature so I stuck this slide in here
and introducing oracle 10g and I
colorized the last bullet points because
I think many people gave us or conceded
the first bullet points yeah it's
Oracle's pretty much runs all your
applications it's fairly open that way
it stores any information you have from
rows and columns to spatial to text to
images is scalable available reliable
pretty secure but what I don't think
people would have conceded in the past
was it was it was really easy to manage
you know it is easy as firing up
Microsoft Word and you know put in an
ABC and I've got a document that i can
print out oracle had a reputation of
being able to scale up really large but
maybe not scaled down as easily if you
will so this is something that we really
focused on in the release of this
software it was a single biggest effort
not just for 10g in a microcosm but in
my years at Oracle it was the single
biggest effort software-wise that I've
ever seen they took this seriously
over fifty percent of the architects and
the engineers within the server
technologies division were focused on
manageability related projects this is a
widespread effort not just in the server
technology on the database but
throughout the entire application stack
and the application server as well so
for example the overriding goal was
reduce the cost of managing simple small
Oracle instances by at least fifty
percent how can we do that well one
thing we can do is reduce administration
costs we made many things automatic
versus manual marc was trying to get
oracle going on his laptop which is
somewhat memory starved and he's like
well how big should make the block
buffer cache and how big should i make
the java pool and how big should i make
the large pool what about this shared
pull on the redo log buffers you know i
could go through all the pools all the
dba's would be glad to know we added
five more in oracle 10g so you have like
13 of them that you could five when we
took a look at this system and I said
you know you got X amount of memory
let's get half of it Oracle you can set
a single memory parameter SGA underscore
target we set that to 200 mega or
whatever it was and Oracle come up with
the best allocation of memory based on
that what it does is sets a relatively
small size pool for everything and throw
the rest of the memory into those into
the buffer cache as the other pools
become starved for memory Oracle will
come and steal from the buffer cache and
give it to these other pools but it made
it automatic I didn't have to sit down
and think about how to size these 13
caches I just said Oracle take 200 megs
of ram and divvy it up the best way
possible intelligence vs data I call
this one giving the database a long-term
memory the dba's out there now that the
database is very good at telling you two
things about performance can tell you
what's happening right now right I can
log in I can see what queries are
running I can see how many
zehrs are connected i can see who's
running a long-running query i can see
how long the queries have been running
for i can see how much work the queries
that are still running have done the
other thing that can tell me is well
since you start at me up two months ago
I did X number of transactions I ran
this query so many billions of times
I've done this over and over again what
it can't tell you is at noon the
performance problem that was being
experienced by your end-users was caused
by George that information just doesn't
exist in the database anywhere in a very
short term memory what's happening right
now and then it has this averaged long
term memory but they had no real
information couldn't log in and find out
anything truly useful about the
immediate path because it always
happened that way the DBA goes out to
lunch she comes back the red light is
blinking on the phone they pick it up
it's George saying hey at noon the
system is really really slow I need to
know two things from you why and what
are you going to do about it when the
past unless you had accidentally been
sitting there watching the system admin
you'd really have no way of knowing the
database is now constantly benchmarking
itself so when the DBA comes back at one
o'clock slide a little window back in
the in the database console drop it down
they can see what was happening at you
know inside the database and for the
first time they'll be able to call
George back and say we've told you so
many times don't hit the stop and the
reload button just let the page finish
because the performance problem was you
submitting the same monster queries 15
times and we fixed it by revoking your
access to the system but the DBA never
had that information before it's always
been guesswork I've always been you know
afraid of answering that phone calls if
it's like I don't know what was going on
at 3am and I have no way of telling you
what was going on at 3am reduce capital
expenditures is we're talking about by
sort of right size in the system
adaptive versus oversized I'll add
capacity as I need I don't have to buy a
machine that can support up to 128 CPUs
which is a quite expensive machine I can
start with smaller machines and add more
of them over time integrated versus
third party I want to do this cluster
thing I need to buy two pieces of
software not 40 on I've cut out sort of
this volume management software that I
don't need and this clustering software
that i don't need the last part here is
reducing the failure cost so proactive
versus corrective that SGA target that i
was talking about one of the very
important pools inside of an oracle
databases to sink a shared pool shared
pools where we store parsed
representations of equal and PL sequel
and other pretty important stuff a very
common error is an aura 4030 out unable
to allocate X number of bytes in the
shared pool used to be that the end
users would just get that message back
not very useful have to call the DBA DBA
to us or to figure out what went wrong
and fix the problem if i'm using this
automatic memory tuning before returning
an or 40 30 back to an end user the
database is going to look and say can I
can I sort of feel something from
somebody else at this point in time
maybe I can shrink this pool and take it
and use it over here because we were
using this memory over there but we're
not using it right now so let's give it
up from that purpose and move it over
here so it's proactively fixing itself
rather than reactive we waiting for DBA
to correct itself or correct it and the
other one is acting succeed versus trial
and error I know a lot of dba's I've
been guilty of this myself
systems running slow on the past you
know we did this and it sort of made
things better we rebuilt an index so
we'll go and try that is it better yet
no okay reorg incapable that'll make
things faster so we'll rebuild some
tables is it faster yet know the
database because it's now benchmarking
itself can actually come back and give
you advice hey I installed this database
console my 10g database was running
great one day it came back and said your
database is running five times slower
today than it was in the past we're
running five hundred percent slower
things are taking five times as long
we've identified that there's needs new
queries that have been introduced in the
system they never existed before and if
you push this button over here we'd
actually like to take these queries and
tune them for you we can suggest indexes
that you could add to it to make them
faster materialized use or even help to
simply rewrite the query the database is
sort of watching itself waiting for its
performance characteristics change
trying to figure out why and then
notifying you so we're not coming in and
sort of guessing what can fix the system
the system telling us yeah there is a
problem and here is the probable cause
and solution for that problem so take a
look at the life of the DBA see where
they spend all their time about eighteen
percent of it is in install creating
configure so this came out of a survey
from the international oracle user group
dba's what do you actually do so
eighteen percent install creating
configure that sort of boggled my mind a
little bit I thought that that was a lot
you install a database Swanson and it's
over it's forgotten right well no
because I install the database for this
developer or so that he can build as
prototype and I install it for this
development team so they can take the
prototype a little bit further than I
need to move it over to this QA system
and do it over here again and then I
need to put it into a production
environment so every every database
might actually have five six seven
installed behind it and people are
actually creating and destroying the
database instances relatively frequently
so one of the things we did in Kenji was
too
make the database fast and light weight
as far as installation we got it down to
a single disk if you will it used to be
three to five CDs to actually install
the database it's now one CD no we
didn't cheat we didn't put it on a DVD
you know it's actually a CD what we did
was going on back and took a look and
said what is this file it's been here
since version 5 what does it mean well
we don't need that one anymore and we
cleaned out a lot of the stuff one back
and we have one single base image CD now
you stick this in 15-20 minutes later
you have a database installed up and
running with the seed database the
starter database in everything and out
of the box database console so it used
to be I install the database now I want
to manage it oh go get the CD back so we
can install Enterprise Manager and set
it up and get figure it and everything
else like that we've taken the
enterprise manager database
functionality and actually moved it
inside the database itself so now when i
install the database and i started up
comes with a very small java web server
sitting outside of it the java web
servers just making stored procedure
calls basically into the database and
the database is got the enterprise
manager tool in it so no longer am i
installing the database and then hunting
around for CD to figure out how to
install the tool to manage the database
install the database the last step is
hey go to this URL and start managing me
this is how you're going to interact
with me six percent in loading data so
we took a tool we've had this tool
called export and import forever and
it's been virtually unchanged forever
and every DBA knows exactly what Export
Import is and other limits they know how
to kick it and make it do what they want
but it's not very flexible fast is
something people might not have
attributed to it so for the first time
in many years we rewrote this are now
called import DP and export DP for for
data pump the export is
after but not as faster as the import is
the export was already pretty fast using
a direct path to export there was only
so much we could do we're now pretty
much gated by the speed of the disk as
far as getting data out of the database
but the import we did a lot to made it
use direct path operations so it's
bypassing the sequel engine so it's able
to format database blocks and write them
directly automatic parallelization of
the input stream so if you've ever
trying to import a hunger gigabyte
database dump file you know that was a
long process because it was insert row
after row after row and it would create
an index create an index create an index
now it's going to do all those things in
parallel as much as possible so it's
blown as much data in as it can as fast
as it can then creating indexes in
parallel as fast as they can basically
utilizing the entire machine it's
restartable one of the boat points I
don't have on here that I think is nice
one is I can actually start an export
sort of a server process on one machine
stream it over the network to an import
process running someplace else and it
sort of piping it into my database so i
can actually stream my information from
say an HP ux box across the network and
import it into my database running on a
mac or take it from the mac and stream
it over to linux or wherever i need the
information to go so it's a little bit
like using database links but doing
direct path operations in a massively
parallel fashion here's the big one
fifty-five percent of the time ongoing
system maintenance so I've got DBA names
Fred he manages 14 Oracle instances and
his morning is pretty boring because
it's always the same thing over and over
again it's a little bit like Groundhog
Day comes in logs in the server one hi
how you doing are you up or you run out
of space the backups work am i running
out space in the filesystem looking at
everything did anybody reporting
problems against you then he logs out
and goes to the next server and sort of
repeats the whole process and hopefully
it's a blurring morning that he doesn't
find out any problems
we went on now with the database sort of
watching itself when he comes in the
databases tell them everything was okay
you don't even need to look at me we're
running fine we're not out of space
nothing bad happened the backup
succeeded or there'd be a red blinking
light saying help i need help over here
performance was going through the tubes
at three o'clock in the morning here's
what was wrong here's what I think you
need to do about it and then Fred who's
a professional DBA looks at that advice
and treats it as advice from a junior
DBA and either does it or refines it or
ignore it entirely so this diagram is
supposed to represent what we have today
there's a database and then each one of
these red boxes is sort of a point
solution outside the database my
developers have a tool that they use to
do their application and sort of sequel
management and there they're tuning of
sequel queries and rewrites and things
like that my system administrators have
system resource management tool how's my
system do anything helps my disk the
memory on a box the CPUs the dba's have
their backup and recovery tools and
they'll get another tool to do some
space management hey go to look for
fragmentation in my database suggest
objects that need to be fixed help me
reorg and things like that and then
lastly there's storage management
software like a Veritas or something
like that our goal was 10g to actually
move that all into the database so if I
want to tune sequel the databases are
under the sequel the database knows
better than anybody else what could
actually help the sequel go better
because it's got this thing called an
optimizer inside of it it could say you
know what if we had an index on these
columns how would how would the sequel
probably perform given that that's the
entire goal or job of an optimizers to
look at all the possible you know
combinations the query plans given the
tables and indexes it have it can now
hypothesize and say you know what if we
had these extra two indexes over here we
have to make this query would consume
one
system resources it is right now or if
you created this materialized view we
would be able to execute this query with
one-tenth of illogical iOS instead of
the millions that you're doing right now
same with system resource management and
space management the database sort of
knows as you're gathering statistics and
things like that this object is fifty
percent white space well once I've
identified there's an object is fifty
percent white space because I sort of
delete it every other row or something
like that the next step is when I need
to reorganize is that the object is in
need of a reorg step one and step two it
actually has the command to shrink
segments now so I could say hey take the
table uncompacted it's going to do
things like read the table from the
bottom up and then find the last row and
sort of delete it and reinsert it at the
top of the table so that the table will
become fifty percent full at the top 50%
empty at the bottom and it will redraw
the high water mark for that segment we
would give us all that space back our
goal was to take all these things that
we always had outside the database and
move them inside so for example
automatic tuning notes of sequel we have
bad sequel in a packaged application
this is sort of a list of steps you not
expected to read these of what you would
do in 9i vs 10 g and 9i you'd have to
first identify that there is a problem
this query has run for like five hours
there's the problem then you'd have to
try and figure out well could the query
actually run in less than five hours and
I play around with it my tune it and I
find hate you know if I rewrote it like
this or hinted adore I did this the
query runs really fast but it's in a
third-party application so you can't
change the code you can't change the
query so you call up their support you
spend a couple hours convincing them
that there is a problem and then maybe a
couple of days later a couple of weeks
later they develop a patch and then you
you install this patch which is sort of
down time as you're patching your system
and one of three things will happen one
thing that could happen is nothing
changes doesn't fix the problem on your
particular box the other one is it could
actually fix the problem but the more
probable outcome is
the installation of that patch
destabilizes 50 other modules inside of
this system and you end up worse off
than you were in the beginning in 10g
what's going to happen or does happen is
the database identifies bad sequel
automatically pops to the top and it
says you've got this sequel it is a
problem we need to take a look at it
it's got many things that could do to it
it could advise you on indexes
materialized use it could tell you how
to rewrite it but those aren't always
achievable in this third party software
environment the last thing it can do is
actually analyze a query now much like
dba's have been able to analyze table
I'm going to take that query is going to
say look it's a ten table joint problem
is we don't understand the relationship
between table 1 and table 2 let's
understand the relationship between
table 1 and table 2 given this predicate
that you're using and the database
analyzes this query stores extended
statistics in the data dictionary and
then the next time you parse an
optimized that query it says you know
when I join these two tables together
without this extended statistics i
thought i'd get five thousand rows but
now i know because of these extras
statistics i'm going to get five million
rows out of this joint so i'm going to
come up with a totally different query
plan the DBA can take any query analyze
it store that information in the data
dictionary so the next time that query
is parched and comes up with the right
plan all by itself it cuts out that loop
of go back to the developers who wrote
the query in the first place and try to
figure out a better way to run this
query give the optimizer more
information out of memory errors is this
the one that I used before hey i'm
running a query and i get this or 40 31
or 40 30 out of out of memory what do i
do well I call the DBA the DBA has to
look and say okay yeah the buffer pool
is a little bit bigger than we need it
let's shrink the buffer pool and will
grow the shared pool and now the
problems gone away if I'm using the
automatic memory management inside the
database in 10g that space is
intentionally left blank because that's
not going to happen in that particular
installation if the shared pool runs out
of memory we're automatically going to
look and identify
we can get some from and slide it over
there last example mistakenly drop table
you know it's the problem of right table
wrong database you know it's that late
at night if the pinky leaves the enter
key you get that cold feeling in your
stomach just fall through and you go I
did a bad thing 9i we'd prepare an
auxiliary instance we'd use our man to
restore the tablespace we do a
point-in-time recovery of that table
space to right before the drop and then
we transport that data out and move it
over this is probably at least an hour
because we're going to tapes we're going
to get back up we're going through this
process that we don't go through every
day in order to recover this 10g we now
treat tables as though they're like
recycle bin objects and I drag something
into my trash it doesn't actually delete
it sort of hides it I can go back and
unhide it later when you drop a table we
don't actually drop it anymore we sort
of hide it from you and we give you the
ability to unwrap this object at a later
point in time so instead of your system
being down for an hour or so while
you're recovering this table it's back
up immediately because as soon as you
drop it you unwrap it and bring it back
and then the last part we're going to
look at here before getting in an HTML
DB is the install creating to figure
again but also the ongoing software
maintenance this is a quarter of their
time is spent dealing with software
related issues not even data related
issues really Enterprise Manager version
for this is what we also call our grid
control its main purpose in life is
managing groups of systems and in these
grids if you will they took the database
functionality out of enterprise manager
many dba's looked at enterprise I
understand that's the tool I used to
like create users and things like that
administer my database we moved out all
into the database consult the database
has that functionality now Enterprise
Manager needed to find something else to
do a different purpose in life so it
came up with I'm going to manage your
systems I'm going to manage your
software I'm going to fix the problem
that we have
of this create configure install patch
maintain two topics that I picked out as
the to the intrigue me most one is
automated software cloning that DBA is
that hey install this database for this
prototype installed this database for
this development install this database
for QA install the database for
production they're doing the same thing
five six seven times over and over again
they can now install the software I'm
going to installing to create and
configure an OLTP ish database then I'm
going to install and create and
configure sort of a data warehousing
database it's going to have partitioning
and other things on it I'm going to have
these reference installed so that when
somebody comes in provisions of database
for me I don't have to get the cds out
anymore I don't have to go to the
machine I don't run the installation
process I point at an existing Oracle
install and then either just clone the
software or I call in the software and
the data along with it so instead of
being an hour long process to say
install create and configure database
becomes a 30-second operation because
you're setting this up through
enterprise manager and it's happening in
the background true you have to come
back in an hour and verify that
everything worked but you're not sitting
there watching a blue bar go across
hitting a next prompt filling in the
default it's an automated process the
other thing if this is the only thing it
did it would still be cool is enterprise
manager is maintaining an inventory of
what you've got installed it knows how
many Oracle instance is you have running
out there what versions of the
application software that you're running
the application server the applications
themselves storing this in a repository
it's not only doing that just
remembering what operating system you're
running on what patches are installed on
it how many CPUs you have how fast they
are what the disk looks like how much
RAM you have this is all in one
centralized repository takes this
information now and turn it around and
goes to metal inc which is our support
website and says this is this guy's
finger print this is what he's actually
running this is what he's actually using
what applies given these inputs not
using partitioning you won't get
bulletins and patch
that are partitioning related you're
simply not using that feature you are
using advanced security well the
security bulletin just came out last
night is something that would pop up on
your screen immediately so Enterprise
Manager is taking an inventory finding
out what applies notifying you about it
and then allowing you to download that
information into a repository as well so
get to the patch puts it into a managed
location so that you can come back and
say yeah server1 apply the patch right
now shut down by the patch bring it back
up verify that everything work register
that in in the repository server 2 3
p.m. on saturday I'd like you to
schedule that patch upgrade to take
place and send the alert as to the
success or failure to this email address
so that can page me or whatnot and let
me know how it went but I don't want to
do it right now on Friday I want to wait
till tomorrow afternoon and these other
servers out here I can schedule them as
well so for the first time the DBA can
look and say I've got 10 Oracle
instances nine out of ten have had the
patch applied and the tenth one is
scheduled to have this patch applied
saturday afternoon at this point I'm
going to turn it over to mark he's going
to spend about 20 minutes talking about
HTML DB and then we're going to have a
quick Q&A session so mark
alright so HTML DB is something that's
built out of the Reston Development
Center we really kind of started as a
small little project to build a calendar
and turn into a sizable component of 10g
I mean I've got a couple slides in real
just going to get into the demo so I'll
switch over there in a minute what is
HTML DD ok I'm gonna watch the clock
watch us try to look at this I'm really
bad at reading like you all do so what
HTML DD is a declarative web based
development environment what does that
mean well that means you build it with
the browser you don't have to install on
a client software you run it from a
browser where you build it is where you
run it you don't have to do that but you
can do that if you wish it's also a
feature of the Oracle 10g database you
can stick it in older 9i 09 I are two
databases with a loss on functionality
for instance the recycle bin Tom talked
about is exposed in HTML DV so what does
the offer I'm not going to go over that
because Tom talked about all the LEDs
the secure ability of the integrity
scalability we know all that it just
exposes all that for you and again it's
built for the web so if you're like a
lot of organizations you've got your
spreadsheets out there you've got your
microsoft access databases your file
servers you get it all spread all over
and you can read all the studies let's
say oh it takes 13 man hours to find a
file and the server I've heard some
companies have one web page one website
for two different people and all that
good stuff so this is about
consolidation you use HTML DV you take
your spreadsheets and we will you take
your desktop databases which we won't do
in this example for time and your files
you can put them all on a 10g database
and then you can look at them with your
standard browsers it's not IE specific
god knows how many times I've gone to a
web page where it says you've got to run
IE 6 we don't do that you can run all of
those browsers right there works just
fine the development team is a small
bunch but they care about
the browsers out there they don't want
to isolate anybody so there's a four
major components to it there's the
application builder there's the sequel
workshop the data workshop and
administration I'll go over each one of
those tools and a little more detail
we're going we're going well am I going
too fast anyone might learn all right
great so the application builder is best
explained the seagull workshop is what
you think it is you can go create sequel
edit sequel save sequel create sequel
from objects say you've created a
database tables 10 table of indexes
functions triggers and you misplace that
file you're like now going to go rebuild
that script you can point HTML DB to the
table and say rebuild the ddl and it'll
spit it all back out we'll be able to
look at all the attributes of a database
to trigger a function look at the source
code do all that good stuff with the
sequel workshop the data workshop allows
you to load data in via XML the cut and
paste with the spreadsheet upload the
export-import that's all right there and
then administration so this is a view by
your rack of X herbs and you've got 20
development environments and you don't
want to give them their own database you
want to take one day they spread across
all those excerpts and just slice them
up so there's a provisioning aspect to
it so Tom gets is 20 megabytes because
he's special I get my two megabytes
because I'm a not as special and then
what I see is completely independent of
what Tom sees he won't be able to touch
my stuff I won't be able to touch his
stuff and that's part of using the
virtual private database part of 10g all
right the good stuff like that stuff I
want to go over here ok cool
thank you for that so i've already
logged into HTML DB what I'm going to do
is I'm gonna take a spreadsheet I'm
going to put it into the database I
might have it converted into a table I'm
going to make a couple lookup columns on
them then I'm going to build an
application based on that table i've
already logged in so let's go create
let's go first go to the data actually
where's my spreadsheet where's my
spreadsheet i'm so glad i didn't know
that would have not made a good demo so
what this is is a spreadsheet of a bunch
of hardware we've got I want to just
copy that go back to Safari when i
import the spreadsheet data i'm going to
create a new table and these tables are
routing you real tables like anybody
else are not second-class citizens
they're not some special objects as
metadata the whole environment runs off
metadata these are real tables and will
pop over to sequel and a prove that
because people ask though you're putting
this in some freaky repository aren't
you no we're not it's just regular so we
go over here paste the data don't worry
if it looks funky you it'll come good so
it took the columns and make a good good
guess as to what they are well the first
one is a text field so the second one
cpu speed we're pretty good pretty sure
that that's a number the purchase date
we're real real sure that that's a date
and then so on and so forth if we wanted
we could go on and do some other stuff
with it then it gives you a couple
columns here and if you want to you will
if you don't want it column you can say
no I'm not going to say this is going to
be better than sequel loader if you're
familiar with that tool but it beats
having to try to get a log into the
server so a web-based it will name this
table hardware
continue on and right here what it's
going to do is going to put a primary
key on the table I was talking with the
gentleman yesterday I believes we wanted
to convert from one take one system to
another and he said well I've got all
these indexes I got this Web object out
there that's maintaining the top level
sequence number for all the tables and
that's how I know what's index is to
make and I said all you got to do is
create an index on that table give it a
sequence i d-didn't you kind of looked
amazing with the sequence I said it's an
automatic number that's generated by the
database for you and what HTML DB is
doing is doing all that for you so it's
automatically giving you a sequence
number so you don't have to try to
manage your own index numbers for
collisions I've done it myself I've
tried to do that I've had a key
violation myself trying to do it not
here tom I learned that before so and
then it'll create primary key so there's
all the good stuff that it gives you so
we're going to go ahead and create the
index let it do that create the sequence
name is already use I forgot to drop
that before let me go back give it a
different table name hardware too so can
we cut that out of the video
so there we go 37 row succeeded 0 failed
woohoo so we're going to go back over to
the application builder and you can see
you can do is already a sample
application here when you install it the
way to deploy sample application is you
click a button and boom I'll get playing
time click a button boom and it just
goes runs you don't have to go deploy
anything it's just a bunch of sequel
that it runs to create the database
create the application for you and
that's what they do when you you a
provision a user so we're going to go
create a new application we're going to
have a based on existing tables this
user has a schema associated with it
called apple if i wanted to that could
have multiple schemas this is the
default schema that I told it when I
provisioned this user just going to look
in this schema for the table pop up
right here and you'll see hardware to
you also see over here kind of a
breadcrumb trail of you know this is a
wizard there's a lot of wizards in there
you can make your own wizard so there's
actually a wizard wizard and you can see
over there on the left just how far you
are into the process the nice thing is
is as a developer and I don't have to
manage state if you're familiar with me
in maintaining session state it does it
all for you you don't have to worry
about oh when I go from page a two-page
be collect up all the information in and
the form fields and save it off into
some memory space it does it all for you
so it really makes developing
applications pretty quickly but I'm just
going to finish it's good chug
cusco run it and see what we got we've
got basic security on it you as a
workspace manager can pick what you want
right now this is using database users
and as it works as manager you can
create those yourself if you want you
can use ldap based authentication you
can use single sign-on authentication I
don't think most to any of you hopefully
have Microsoft Active Directory but you
can you can use that as an
authentication source so you don't have
to convert all this data and move it
over and keep it in sync it'll do it so
we login oh so this is what it generated
generated an application with a couple
tabs and a couple of components to it so
let's go look at the hardware we go
analyze it it's through and some
charting by default we're going to it
took all the columns in the table and
said okay these are all the columns you
you have let's go so show a chart will
do that and since it's an SVG chart so
you can do all that skin zooming and
whatever if you want you can click on
one of the components and it'll bring
you up to it will show you a sequel
query of just that data and literally
all this was is I just typed in each
types in that Atlanta you saw me it
types into select star from hardware to
wear what did I say brand equals del
great and if I wanted to I could go do
it myself I can go edit these if you've
done web based development you're always
familiar with the create update delete
functions this takes care of all that
it's kind of the Oh entity relationship
builder that it has in there it went out
there and did it it knew that this is a
days so it said oh I'm going to prefer a
pop-up date picker right there then I go
apply the changes I don't have to worry
about commits or anything like that it
takes care of that I can't worry about
it if I want but I don't have to this is
just a sample application you can you
can go to town I have a couple
example applications of what some people
have built with it I mean you were just
using straight tables here would you be
spatial data there's an example of that
down the road and then so we wanted to
we can as a debugger we can flip it in
that load will show you everything
that's doing as it's rendering but right
here you can see all the session data
you're like well what is that value I've
got a bug I maybe maybe I don't but you
can see the value right here see what it
is what it thinks it is so it's a nice
way to just keep tracking without having
to do if you're familiar with see print
a spell over the place or system that
out there print lens you've got all that
right there the other thing that I
wanted to do is go back and edit the
application and I told myself I was
going to forget and I sure enough did I
forgot to create the the lookup table on
that so let me go over to the sequel
there's the recycled and I'm going to go
browse the table at the table find my
hardware table for someone like me she
doesn't live in the sequel world I love
it Tom Tom live in the sequel world he's
a sequel plus jockey among other things
so he's a he loves that I love this
because I can just drill in here and
start looking at stuff and have to worry
about this is the trigger that I put on
there automatically so I'm going to go
create a lookup table for this and I'm
going to pick the brand looks good we
take that brand I'm going to say next
it's going to make a new table out of
its going to soak up all that info and
put it in the index in table and then
replace that so if you wanted to you
could see where was it view the data
model and you can see that brand looked
up is now related to hardware to this
isn't a really fancy a referential
integrity but you can get this point
when it gets larger it can be pretty a
pretty useful so we'll just go back over
here to the Builder let's just do this
one more time for a reinforcement go
back
pick hardware too
mornin so where was that hardware too so
right there you see the brand ID now
turns into a picklist and as smart
enough to know that look at the
referential integrity see the
relationship and create an appropriate
type for that that's pretty much HTML DB
in a nutshell from getting your
spreadsheets out of everybody's desk
tops off everybody's desktop
consolidated into a database I did a
project for a boat racing group and they
had spreadsheets all over the place
files here and there spreadsheets
everywhere we told him use this tool
before wasn't even produce and they they
were quite happy with it with eight
literally sailors out there developing
HTML DV applications Who am I looking on
time seven minutes ok oh I'll let that
run little well it's not even showing
anymore can you float back to that one
real quickly apologized so anyways this
was a spatial data thing you can see
that somebody is we track the vehicle
from I guess their home they parently
went down to the airport and then once
somewhere else this is all data running
out of the database the map is generated
by the spatial data system and it's just
making requests you can pretty much drop
these type of objects on there for 10 we
could zoom you can see this person tends
to speed a little bit I think that's a
65 mile an hour toll road though so
that's the type of stuff you can make
anyways this another little bullet point
of what what gee whiz stuff there is
available so if we could flip back to
the presentation thank you so we talked
about how it works a little bit you can
see that it's centrally deployed and
managing your single database be running
on you know one laptop like I have or a
rack of X serves and x x rayed systems
I've got one of those in the lab I
thoroughly enjoy it access anywhere via
browser we literally do
on the plane with our browsers take your
application put it back up into the
system and just as easy as moving
applications like that and it's
declarative I don't have to go out there
and say if this condition is that then
do this you can just say you know show
me this text field only when I'm an
administrator don't show it when Tom
logs in show an administrative tab only
when the person who logged in as a
member of this ldap specified church
hierarchy so it's a little simpler for
some people but you can also go to town
and create normal people procedures Java
stored procedures anything that's
callable from the databases is a fair
game this is what it looks like that's
pretty much it as they say that's all
folks with that you've got the little
yellow box that can be one machine it
doesn't have to be but basically you've
got your database runs HTML DB you don't
have a middle tier you don't have edge
servers and cache servers and all this
kind of stuff it's can be one machine we
typically do that you can split it out
if you want to have your HTTP server
running somewhere else in a real word
real world you probably would because
you want to have a firewall and all that
good stuff with the load balancers and
then that's pretty much it so the
Collette via installation for the
companion CD that's available on otn has
it it's really simple install you don't
have to sit there and say okay now where
does this go how's that hook up
invariably somebody always says well are
you trying to get rid of your portal
product or you how this is you know
going to fit the j2ee stuff and we're
not trying to displace j2ee by any means
suspicions we have our own product but
you can look at it you can see that j2ee
standards-based this is HTML deviate run
PL sequel that's what is built in it's
taking advantage of all those of
wonderful 10g features that Tom talked
about the development approach is a
little more ad hoc somebody says hey I
got the spreadsheet can you do this you
know build an application track
something
do whatever it doesn't mean you've got a
lot of silly little applications are one
time used you can but it's um it's more
leverages of stuff for that as opposed
to j2ee where if you wouldn't do a right
j2ee application you got to know what
you're doing you have to design it well
and scale it so then the development
environment j2ee the Eclipse the Xcode
the jdeveloper those are all phenomenal
hi des but if you just got a web browser
you have to go somewhere and they don't
allow you to bring your computer with
you like the CIA you a web browser you
use theirs and you're good to go and
then it's were really the non
professional developers out there like I
said sailors have been coding
applications non-trivial applications i
might add they literally got the to
sequel in 21 days type of book and they
were ready to go so that's a little
flavor of what HTML DB is and isn't and
how it relates to the j2ee if you want
to try it out you can go download it
install it yourself and and go to town
if you want to just get started in 10
minutes just go to this website HTML DV
oracle com it's free you log in and you
can put you'll you ask for a workspace
little it'll get provisions
automatically within an hour so
depending on if the guys are still there
then you can talk there's a discussions
on OT informs what did oh how do i do
that's how i do that you can also go to
the HTML DV studio where there's
examples of how to do this how to do the
if you don't want to build that common
look and feel from the application
builder how do you make your own master
detail relationships how do you put a
multiple row edit all these days view
looks out there you can look at and it
shows you how to do it and you're going
to also go to HTML db2 oracle com / o TN
is where the official homepage is for
that product